OSDOCS-12022: Dynamic plugin updates (#82215)
openshift/openshift-docs: web_console/dynamic-plugin/overview-dynamic-plugin.adoc

[id="dynamic-plug-in-overview"]
== About dynamic plugins

> Dynamic plugins are loaded and interpreted from remote sources at runtime. One way to deliver and expose dynamic plugins to the console is through OLM Operators. The Operator will create a deployment on the platform with an HTTP server to host the plugin and expose it using a Kubernetes service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Dynamic plugins are loaded and interpreted from remote sources at runtime. One way to deliver and expose dynamic plugins to the console is through OLM Operators. The Operator creates a deployment on the platform with an HTTP server to host the plugin and exposes it using a Kubernetes service.
```

> Dynamic plugins are loaded and interpreted from remote sources at runtime. The standard way to deliver and expose dynamic plugins to the console is through OLM Operators. The Operator will create a deployment on the platform with an HTTP server to host the plugin and expose it using a Kubernetes service.

Reviewer 2: I might say "one way to deliver" instead of "standard." If customers are writing their own plugins, it's a big ask to create an operator to deploy and manage it, and it's not really needed.

> They allow you to add custom pages and other extensions to your console user interface at runtime. The `ConsolePlugin` custom resource registers plugins with the console, and a cluster administrator enables plugins in the `console-operator` configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Dynamic plugins allow you to add custom pages and other extensions to your console user interface at runtime. The `ConsolePlugin` custom resource registers plugins with the console, and a cluster administrator enables plugins in the `console-operator` configuration.
```

> They allow you to add custom pages and other extensions to your console user interface at runtime. The `ConsolePlugin` custom resource registers plugins with the console, and a cluster administrator enables plugins in the `console-operator` configuration.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
They allow you to add custom pages and other extensions to your console user interface at runtime. The `ConsolePlugin` custom resource registers plugins with the console, and a cluster administrator enables plugins in the console operator configuration.
```
`console-operator` is not a resources so maybe we should make it plain text

* Maintain a consistent look, feel, and behavior with other console pages.
* Follow link:https://www.i18next.com/[react-i18next] localization guidelines when creating your plugin. You can use the `useTranslation` hook like the one in the following example:
+
[source,tsx,subs="+quotes,+macros"]
----
conster Header: React.FC ++= () => {++
  ++const { t } = useTranslation('plugin__console-demo-plugin');++
  ++return <h1>{t('Hello, World!')}</h1>;++
++};++
----

* Avoid selectors that could affect markup outside of your plugins components, such as element selectors. These are not APIs and are subject to change. Using them might break your plugin. Avoid selectors like element selectors that could affect markup outside of your plugins components.
* Provide valid JavaScript Multipurpose Internet Mail Extension (MIME) type using the `Content-Type` response header for all assets served by your plugin web server. Each plugin deployment should include a web server that hosts the generated assets of the given plugin.

> * You must build your plugin with Webpack using Webpack version 5+.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You must build your plugin with Webpack using Webpack version 5 or later.
```

* You should prefix CSS class names with your plugin name to avoid collisions. For example, `my-plugin_\_heading` and `my-plugin_\_icon`.
* You should maintain a consistent look, feel, and behavior with other console pages.

> * You should avoid selectors that could affect markup outside of your plugins components, such as element selectors. These are not APIs and are subject to change. Using them might break your plugin. Avoid selectors like element selectors that could affect markup outside of your plugins components.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You should avoid selectors that could affect markup outside of your plugin components, such as element selectors. These are not APIs and are subject to change. Using them might break your plugin. 
```

> * You must provide valid JavaScript Multipurpose Internet Mail Extension (MIME) type using the `Content-Type` response header for all assets served by your plugin web server. Each plugin deployment should include a web server that hosts the generated assets of the given plugin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You must provide a valid JavaScript Multipurpose Internet Mail Extension (MIME) type using the `Content-Type` response header for all assets served by your plugin web server. Each plugin deployment should include a web server that hosts the generated assets of the given plugin.
```

* Avoid selectors that could affect markup outside of your plugins components, such as element selectors. These are not APIs and are subject to change. Using them might break your plugin. Avoid selectors like element selectors that could affect markup outside of your plugins components.
* Provide valid JavaScript Multipurpose Internet Mail Extension (MIME) type using the `Content-Type` response header for all assets served by your plugin web server. Each plugin deployment should include a web server that hosts the generated assets of the given plugin.
* You must build your plugin with Webpack using Webpack version 5+.

> * You can use link:https://nodejs.org/en/[`Node.js`] and link:https://yarnpkg.com/[`yarn`] to build and run your plugin.

Reviewer 2: Picking nits here, but yarn is a package manager and doesn't actually do the build. npm (rather than node) is the alternative.

This is more a prereq like node and Docker I would say if we have those documented in another place.

Author: I removed it since we have as a prereq in some of the other docs.

> * You must use link:https://nodejs.org/en/[`Node.js`] and link:https://yarnpkg.com/[`yarn`] to build and run your plugin.

Reviewer 2: You could use npm I believe. yarn isn't strictly required.

@vojtechszocs keep me honest

** Use Patternfly 4.x if you are using {product-title} versions 4.14 and earlier.
** Use Patternfly 5.x if you are using {product-title} 4.15 or later.
* Make your plugin accessible by following link:https://www.patternfly.org/accessibility/accessibility-fundamentals/[PatternFly's accessibility fundamentals].

> * Avoid using other CSS libraries such as Bootstrap or Tailwind. They can conflict with PatternFly and will not match the rest of the console. Plugins should only include styles that are specific to their user interfaces to be evaluated on top of base PatternFly styles. Avoid importing styles such as `@patternfly/react-styles/**/*.css` or any styles from the `@patternfly/patternfly` package in your plugin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Avoid using other CSS libraries such as Bootstrap or Tailwind. They might conflict with PatternFly and not match the rest of the console. Plugins should only include styles that are specific to their user interfaces to be evaluated on top of base PatternFly styles. Avoid importing styles such as `@patternfly/react-styles/**/*.css` or any styles from the `@patternfly/patternfly` package in your plugin.
```
